At this point in time.
We've been running these two listeners for the last couple of videos or so, and in this last couple
of videos, you might have noticed that sometimes you have published an event and not seen it immediately
appear inside one of these listeners.
Let's see if I can replicate that really quickly.
So I'm going to first publish a normal event.
Okay.
I see number 70 right there.
I'm now going to restart both these listeners very, very quickly and then publish an event very quickly
after that.
And I bet you we are not going to immediately see event number 71 up here right away.
If I do see 71 appear right away, I'm going to restart the publisher yet again and then see if Event
72 also shows up really quickly.
Let's just give it a shot.
I'm going to restart, restart, publish.
And you'll notice I do not see 71.
Now, if we wait for about 30 seconds or so, we might see 71 up here in one of these windows.
I can even do another publish.
Okay.
There's 72, but without a doubt, 71 has been skipped.
So where did events 71 go off to?
Why are we not seeing it appear anywhere?
Well, we're going to do a little bit of digging.
I want you to get kind of a natural understanding of what's going on internally with that streaming
server.
And, hey, there are 71 right there, but why did it take so long?
Right.
So, again, I want to get you or make sure you have a little bit better idea of what's going on internally
with that streaming server.
So it will require us to do a little bit of debugging.
The first thing I want to begin with, you might recall.
But when we put our Nat's deployment file together inside of our directory a little bit ago on our service,
we actually exposed two different ports.
So one was for connecting clients that was port for 2 to 2.
There is another port named monitoring on eight 2 to 2, so we can access the NAT streaming server on
this monitoring port.
And it's going to give us a lot of information about all the different subscriptions that have been
created, all the different clients, some incoming traffic statistics, stuff like that.
So we're going to take a look at the information that is served to us by this monitoring stuff to get
a better idea of why we are sometimes missing events.
To do.
So the first thing we have to do is expose Port 8 to 2 on our local machine so that we can access it
and take a look at that monitoring information.
So inside of my terminal, once again, I'm going to go back to that window.
We had previously set up the port forwarding for port 4 to 2.
We're going to repeat that same process, but for port eight, 2 to 2 instead.
So I'm going to open up another terminal window.
We're going to do that same port forwarding stuff.
So remember, we're going to first do a little get pods.
I'm going to find my Nat's deployment pod.
I'm going to copy the name.
I'll then do a little short dash forward.
I'm going to paste in the pod name.
And then eight.
Two, two, two.
Colon.
Eight.
Two, two, two.
We can now open up our browser and navigate to a local host 8222 and that should print out some monitoring
information about our running NATS server.
Now we're going to go to a very specific address inside of our browser.
I'm going to put into my editor here really quickly, just you can read it very easily.
We're going to go to local host call an 8 to 2 two streaming.
So I'm going to take that URL, put it into my browser.
And we'll see something like this right here.
So this is the net streaming server monitoring page.
We can click around to these different pages and see some stats or information about our running streaming
server.
Now you'll notice that whenever I click one of these tabs or one of these little links, I see some
nicely formatted JSON data.
You might see just a big blob of text.
I see this nicely formatted because I'm running a chrome extension that automatically formats JSON inside
my browser.
If you want to run the same extension, I would encourage you hop on the Chrome Extension Store and
just search for JSON.
You'll find one very similar very easily.
So there's a couple of links on this page that I want to highlight in particular.
First off is clients.
When I go to clients, it's going to print out the information about every client that is currently
connected to my net streaming server, and in particular it will show the ID of each of them at the
very bottom of this array.
I see one client that has an ID of ABC and you might recall that our publisher has a client ID of ABC.
So this entry right here represents our publisher that is currently connected to that streaming server.
These two right here represent the two listeners that we currently have running.
We can also take a look at channels over here.
You'll notice that on the Channels tab as a list of all the active channels currently inside of our
cluster.
And so right now we have just one channel of ticket colon created.
Now there's a little bit more information we can use to kind of extract about these channels.
And unfortunately, it is not super well documented.
In other words, there's not really any link on this page to help you understand how to get here.
So I'm going to click on the channels link and then inside the address bar, I'm going to put in a question
mark and then subs equals one like so now I'm going to navigate there.
So this is going to print out a lot more information about each of the channels that Nat streaming server
is currently running.
So I'll now see.
Okay, we've got a channel with the name of Ticket Colon created and we can see that there are two subscriptions
for this channel.
So there are two subscriptions, one for each of the two.
Listeners that we are currently running.
They are both members of the same CU group because they have the same Q group name.
There's an equate property, which is the number of seconds that net streaming server is going to wait
after sending this thing a message for that client or this subscription to act or acknowledge the message.
And then there's some other information inside of here that you can kind of figure out on your own if
you want to.
So how is this going to help us diagnose this issue with somehow restarting these listeners and then
publishing events and not seeing the event immediately appear?
Well, let me show you what's going on.
I want you to take note that inside of my subscription list right now I have two running subscriptions.
I then going to go back over.
I'm going to restart one of the listeners.
Okay.
Restarted.
And now I'm going to go back over and refresh this page.
And as soon as I do, you'll now see that there are three running subscriptions.
It looks like they are none of them are offline.
So they all have is offline a false.
So right now, when I restarted that listener, I without a doubt stopped a listener.
I stopped it.
I restarted one.
So the copy of that listener or that client that I was running or the subscription, it was closed down
and I created a new one, but for a brief period of time.
Now that streaming server is just going to assume that maybe there is some momentary interrupt in connection
or communication with that client.
So for a very brief period of time now, streaming server says, oh, you know what, that that client,
that subscription just went offline.
But I'm sure it'll be back in just a moment or two.
And so it's just going to sit around and wait and wait and wait and wait until eventually it decides,
you know what, that connection that just went offline, they're probably not coming back.
And so after some period of time, the subscription will eventually be removed from this list.
So it's been about 30 seconds or so.
That's how long I've been yapping on.
So I'm going to now refresh the page and now it's back to two.
So that's what's going on behind the scenes.
That's why we are seeing some messages being temporarily lost.
Now, streaming server thinks that that client is still around, even though we just completely killed
it.
So there's some period of time where now streaming services can say, you know what, I think that thing
might be coming back any point in time.
I'm just going to hold on to this event and send it to them when they come online.
And that's why it appears that we are losing some messages for some period of time.
Now, as you can imagine, that is not super desirable.
So how can we help that streaming server understand that when one of these clients goes offline, it's
not coming back?
Well, there's two things we can do.
The first thing we can do, we kind of already did back inside of our net's deployment file inside the
directory.
You might recall that we had that long list of arguments inside of here.
We had arguments of HP, HP and HBF.
HP stands for Heartbeat.
A heartbeat is like a little request that Napster streaming server is going to send to all of its different
connected clients every so many seconds.
This is purely a little health check.
It makes sure that each of these clients is still up and running.
HB is how often that streaming server is going to make a heartbeat request to each of its clients.
Heat is how long each client has to respond.
And Hfpef is the number of times that each client can fail before that streaming server is going to
assume that that connection is dead and gone.
So when we restart one of these listeners.
Napster server is then at some in the next couple of seconds, like 0 to 5 seconds, whatever listener
we killed Napster server is going to send it a heartbeat request.
We're then going to have to wait for that killed process to fail the health check or the heartbeat twice
in a row before Napster.
The server eventually says, okay, that thing must really be dead.
I'm going to take it off this list of subscriptions.
So that's the first thing we can do to kind of fix this problem.
We can implement tighter heartbeat checks, but even then, we still have to wait for 10 seconds or
so for this thing to actually be cleaned up.
So there must be another way to kind of tell that story.
Server Hey, our clients going dead.
Don't consider us to be receiving any messages anymore.
Well, let's take a look at that second method of helping nats understand that a client is going offline
in the next video.